Version 3.19
	Thanks to Joemar Taggana, some incompatible utilities 
	were discovered in Mac OSX -- including incompatible
	getopt and mktemp.  Corrected confusion in tutorial 
        p. 3 regarding -m (Thanks to Erin Shellman).  Corrected
	spelling of ffpjsd option --hamann to --hamman.

Version 3.18
	Rearranged ungetc character tests to come after
	conversion of pipe to file.  Fixed memory leak in
	hash init().  Added support for large files (> 2GB) on 32
        bit machines.

Version 3.17
	Fixed bug in tempfile creation in function 
        convertPipeToFile().

Version 3.16
	Fixed bug in ffpry with multiple headers parsed as a
	single genome entry.

Version 3.15
	Fixed bug in ffprwn.

Version 3.14
	Added --disable-gui options to ./configure script. This
	disables the perl based gui, so that the Perl/Tk module
	isn't required for installation.

Version 3.13
	Changed row terminal output for all programs from '\t\n' 
	(tab newline) to '\n' (newline) only.  This makes output
	from previous version incompatible with 3.13 but the
	ffps can be easily converted using:

	sed 's/\t$//' ffp > ffp.tmp ; mv ffp.tmp ffp

Version 3.12
	Small bug fix for ffprwn for GNU compiler on 64 bit machines
	where promotion of unsigned int to long unsigned int is
	different.  Thanks to Adrienne Breland at the University
	of Nevada, Reno for finding this.

Version 3.10
	Fixed minor bug in ffpry for fasta records pseudomolecule 
	input ENDING in NNNNNNNN, or other invalid characters.

Version 3.09
	Fixed bug in ffpdf, related to initialized GROUP variable.
	
	Updated license

Version 3.08

	ffpgui

	Added instructions to install a functional version of the
	perl/tk module for using cygwin, in INSTALL.

	Added error messages in ffpgui for running a vocab or 
	relative entropy profile without loading a file first.

	Added additional sections to tutorial.pdf
       


Version 3.07
	Added signal handling to all executables.  
	Broken pipes will cause a termination error in a pipeline
	and will output 'PROGRAM: Broken pipe'

	Expanded ./doc/tutorial.in.
	Updated license.
	Fixed inappropriate default -f setting (changed from 1 to
	2) for ffpvprof.

Version 3.06
	Added ffptree utility, which creates neighbor joining and
	upgma trees.  Date and version automatically updated 
	during build process.
	
        Improved seeding of random generator when no seed is
	provide via command line option:  ffpry, ffpboot, ffpaa

	Added processing via ffptree to ffpgui.  The human 
	readable tree is displayed in the message window.

	Started tutorial file in ./doc directory. 

	Added tutorial.pdf to doc directory

Version 3.05
	Added length test since MAX_WORD_SIZE is 40: ffpry, ffpaa
	ffpre.

Version 3.04
	Added script ffpgui which is a Perl/Tk based GUI wrapper of
	the various utilities.

	Added --keys flag to ffpfilt to force keys to be output
	instead of values only.

Version 3.03
	Fixed overflow error with non-rabin karp hash used in ffpcol.

Version 3.02
	The ffpaat utility has been removed from this package.  The
	purpose of this utility was to count amino acid features in 
	all nine frames from DNA fasta input.  However	obtaining
	a proper translation of gene regions and using ffpaa is 
	generally more informative.  This utility can still be 
	compiled and used from previous versions, but will not longer
	be part of future releases. 

	Updated ffpre to Rabin-Karp hash, also fixed float overflow
	errors and cases of nan, or inf in output.  Text mode is now
	implemented in ffpre.

	Updated ffptxt to Rabin-Karp hash.


Version 3.01
	Implementation of Rabin-Karp hash in ffpaa utility.
	Similar speed gains as in ffpry obtained


	ffpaa -l 20 NC_008253.faa      

	ffpaa (v.3.0)                        ----------- 9.35 s 
	ffpaa (v.3.01)                       ----------- 0.15 s

	Input buffering options removed from both ffpaa and ffpry. The
	optimal buffering size for the system is determined automatically
	by using the stat.st_block size attribute of fstat or the compiler
	default, whichever is greater.  This is an effort to use the
	filesystem's most efficient block size.  
	
	Upcoming v3.02 will include Rabin-Karp implementation of ffpre.

Version 3.0
	Thanks to Nick Loman of University of Birmingham for pointing out
	the cryptic nature of the "key-value" error messages when both
	ffpfilt and ffpcol are used together in a pipeline successively.
	
	All error messages from the utilities state the program issuing
	the error.

	Revamped tmpfile creation for non-seekable piped input, to use
	most efficient buffering.

	Added extra unit tests to confirm piped vs file argument output
	is identical.

	ffpry changes:

	Beginning initial development of Rabin Karp Rolling hash function
	implementations which has replaced the hashing function used
	in version 2 in the ffpry executable.  This has provided a 
	significant speedup in k-mer counting.
	Here is a speed comparison:
	
	ffpry -l 10 -d NC_008253.fna             ------    9.7s (v.3.0)
        ffpry -l 10 -d NC_008253.fna             ------ 1m28.2s (v.2.30

	Removed all-possible/-a flag from ffpry.  The only way to generate
	columnar output from ffpry is via the -f flag and specify a specific
	feature set.

        -f specified features are now reverse complemented and classed as
	is the input sequence by default.	

	Added -r option which disables reverse complementing of the input
	sequence as well as operates on the feature list.  
	
	Fixed ffpry -f long option to correct value as per man file.
	
	Other:

	Fixed segmentation error in ffpboot

	Future directions:

	Rabin-Karp hash function will be implemented in ffpaa, ffptxt and
	ffpre, ffpaat
	
	

Version 2.30
	Fixed bug when encountering IUPAC codes in input files to ffpry.

Version 2.29
	Fixed bug when piping input into ffpmerge.

Version 2.28
	Addition of examples directory with trees from 
	Sims & Kim(2011) PNAS,108,8329-8334

        BUGS: ffpre doesn't report errors for trying to open
        non-existing second file arguments.

        ffpre -l 5 loadfile -d

Version 2.27
	ffpjsd: Added checks for overly long taxa names using the -p,
        phylip 'infile' output option.  Taxa names are now truncated to 10.

Version 2.26
	Inclusion of ffpdf utility which finds clade 'distinguishing
	features' as implemented in the paper Sims & Kim (2011), PNAS
	
Version 2.25
	Major rewrite of ffpreprof and ffpvprof to support
	piping in of files and TTY detection.  Added
	option for tmpfile directory specification in
	ffpreprof and ffpvprof.  Added -a,--amino option
	to ffpvprof.

	Added license header to the scripts

Version 2.23
	Added LICENSE file

	Added abilitity for C utilities to detect whether
	the program is being run interactively or as part of
	a pipeline.  If a utility is run interactively with no
	arguments then an errror message is spit out.

	Made parsing of FNA and FAA files more robust, especially
	when the files are formated strangely or there are many
	characters which must be ignored because they are not
	part of the alphabet set used by the utility.

	In ffpaa and ffpry:
	Added a non-fatal warning message that indicates that a
	particular fna file has zero keys stored in output.
	This usually indicates that the file is empty or contains
	only characters which are not part of the alphabet  set.

Version 2.22
	Fixed ffpjsd -r bug.  Previous output duplicated the diagonal.
Version 2.21
	Fixed non-one diagonals in similarity matrix -s option
	Added test of columnar/key-value input to ffpboot command
Version 2.20
	Added Many new distance measures to ffpjsd
Version 2.19
        Added manhattan distance and pearson correlation(R) similarity and 1-R-squared
        distance calculation to ffpjsd.  
Version 2.18
        Updated manual files to include a few undocumented options and implemented 
        cosine distance calculation in ffpjsd.
Version 2.17
	Added ffpcomplex to package.  This is used to filter out high/low complexity features.
Version 2.16
	Fixed -p bug in ffpjsd when specifying input file in argument list
Version 2.15
	Completed ffpfilt utility.
Version 2.14
	Added (key,value) test to ffprwn utility.
Version 2.11
	Added the ffptxt utility which performs the ffp on 26 letter texts after removing non alphabetic
	characters.
Version 2.10
	Added ffpaat utility which translates nucleic acid sequence first into amino acid sequence and then
	hashes the amino acid based features.
Version 2.09
	Added -Multiple option to ffpry and ffpaa for processing of multiple sequences in one FNA/FAA file
Version 2.05
	Enable long options in script files ffpvprof, ffpreprof and updated man files
Version 2.04
	Enabled long options and updated all man files.
Version 2.03
	ffpry option -d bug fixed.  Now works with ATGC coding.
Version 2.02
	ffpcol now read input properly from stdin
		Added -a switch for amino acid sequences
	ffpaa no longer seg faults on Red-hat Linux system
	Added manpage for ffpcol, ffpcol.1

